---
project: blog 
---
Making progress with the project blog has been fun. It's been a while since I've had to use HTML or CSS beyond remembering the tags exists (though the XML I used in Android Studio kept that in the back of my mind anyway). Beyond that, there's getting back into the swing of using git and Github, and slowly learning one or two things about Github Actions.

Graphic design has never been my strong suit, so designing a website from scratch is going to be an experience. I'm going for a whiteboard aesthetic; I'm sure I could find a Jekyll theme of some kind to help with that, but where's the fun in that? The problem right now is finding fonts that pair well with each other. Keeping with the whiteboard motif, they should look handwritten, but they need to be easily readible, too. Design tips I'm reading online make it sound like using one font for the headings and one for the body text will make a good complimentary effect, but not knowing anything about font design beyond what a serif is, I've been experimenting with different fonts to test them out. For now I've settled on Permanent Marker for the headings and Gloria Hallelujah for the body. They're both Google Fonts, which hopefully won't have any browser compatibility issues, but we'll cross that bridge when we get there.

I was also having issues with the index.html page not rendering properly, and this is where dipping my toes into Github Actions came in handy. The way Github Pages works, every time I push to the repository, there's an automatic action group that builds the site on Github's server. Looking through the (successful) build logs, I saw that multiple index pages were getting rendered, probably confusing the server on which one I wanted to use as my homepage.

When I initialized the Jekyll files, it also gave me a default theme (Minima) and a few default Markdown pages, index.markdown and about.markdown. I wanted to keep these files around to use as syntax reference (I've never used Markdown before outside some very limited Github ReadMe editing), so I renamed them to index.markdown.old and about.markdown.old. Evidently, that wasn't enough to stop ol' Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Github from trying to render them anyway. I could have added them to .gitignore, but I just deleted them in the end, and now it works like a charm. 
